docs/data_pipeline.md, before:

# Data Pipeline

This document explains how dataset loading and transform pipelines work in MMHPE.

## Components

- `datasets/data_api.py`:
  `LitDataModule` builds train/val/test/predict datasets from config.
- `datasets/base_dataset.py`:
  shared transform-pipeline loading and default `collate_fn`.
- `datasets/transforms/*`:
  transform classes referenced by YAML `train_pipeline`, `val_pipeline`, `test_pipeline`.

## Available datasets (registry names)

Exported in `datasets/__init__.py`:
- `MMFiDataset`
- `MMFiPreprocessedDataset`
- `H36MDataset`
- `HummanDataset`
- `HummanPreprocessedDataset`
- `HummanPreprocessedDatasetV2`
- `HummanPreprocessedDatasetV3`
- `HummanCameraDatasetV1`

## Batch/sample contract

A sample usually contains:
- `sample_id`: unique identifier
- `modalities`: active modalities for the sample
- `input_rgb`, `input_depth`, `input_lidar`, `input_mmwave` (as available)
- `gt_keypoints`: 3D keypoints
- `gt_smpl_params`: SMPL params
- `*_camera`: modality camera metadata dicts

`BaseDataset.collate_fn` behavior to know:
- if all sample values of a key are tensors, they are stacked.
- if any value is missing (`None`), a Python list is kept instead of tensor stack.
- for missing `*_affine` keys, it inserts identity `4x4` tensors.

This list-vs-tensor behavior is a common source of shape/type bugs in custom heads.

## HummanPreprocessedDatasetV2 notes

`datasets/humman_dataset_v2.py` is the main newer HuMMan preprocessed loader.

Expected folder structure under `data_root`:
- `rgb/`
- `depth/`
- `lidar/` (optional if generating from depth)
- `cameras/<seq>_cameras.json`
- `smpl/<seq>_smpl_params.npz`
- `skl/<seq>_keypoints_3d.npz`

Important behavior:
- can use YAML split definitions with `split_config` and `split_to_use`.
- if no split config, defaults to person-based 80/20 split.
- can convert depth to point cloud on the fly (`convert_depth_to_lidar=True`).
- can skip heavy image loading while keeping geometry labels (`skeleton_only=True`).

## Split config usage

`configs/datasets/humman_split_config.yml` supports:
- `random_split`
- `cross_camera_split`
- `cross_subject_split`
- `cross_action_split`

When `test_mode=True`, the dataset reads `val_dataset` section of the selected split entry.

## Transform pipeline config

Pipelines are list-of-dicts:

```yaml
train_pipeline:
  - name: DepthToLiDARPC
    params:
      keys: [input_depth]
  - name: VideoResize
    params:
      size: [180, 320]
      keep_ratio: true
      divided_by: 16
      keys: [input_rgb]
  - name: VideoNormalize
    params:
      norm_mode: imagenet
      keys: [input_rgb]
  - name: PCPad
    params:
      num_points: 1024
      pad_mode: repeat
      keys: [input_lidar]
  - name: ToTensor
    params: null
```

If a transform entry includes `prob`, it is wrapped with `RandomApply`.

## Example: use HummanPreprocessedDatasetV2 in config

```yaml
train_dataset:
  name: HummanPreprocessedDatasetV2
  params:
    data_root: /opt/data/humman
    split: train
    split_config: configs/datasets/humman_split_config.yml
    split_to_use: cross_subject_split
    modality_names: [rgb, depth]
    seq_len: 1
    seq_step: 1
    convert_depth_to_lidar: true
```

## Sanity-check dataset quickly

```bash
uv run python - <<'PY'
from argparse import Namespace
from misc.utils import load_cfg
from datasets.data_api import LitDataModule

cfg = load_cfg("configs/dev/humman_smpl_token_v4.yml")
dm = LitDataModule(cfg)
dm.setup("fit")
print("train size:", len(dm.train_dataset))
print("val size:", len(dm.val_dataset))
sample = dm.train_dataset[0]
print("sample keys:", sorted(sample.keys()))
PY
```

Commit message:

Fix seq_len>1 camera keypoint sync and archive OpenSpec change

docs/data_pipeline.md, after:

# Data Pipeline

This document explains how dataset loading and transform pipelines work in MMHPE.

## Components

- `datasets/data_api.py`:
  `LitDataModule` builds train/val/test/predict datasets from config.
- `datasets/base_dataset.py`:
  shared transform-pipeline loading and default `collate_fn`.
- `datasets/transforms/*`:
  transform classes referenced by YAML `train_pipeline`, `val_pipeline`, `test_pipeline`.

## Available datasets (registry names)

Exported in `datasets/__init__.py`:
- `MMFiDataset`
- `MMFiPreprocessedDataset`
- `H36MDataset`
- `HummanDataset`
- `HummanPreprocessedDataset`
- `HummanPreprocessedDatasetV2`
- `HummanPreprocessedDatasetV3`
- `HummanCameraDatasetV1`

## Batch/sample contract

A sample usually contains:
- `sample_id`: unique identifier
- `modalities`: active modalities for the sample
- `input_rgb`, `input_depth`, `input_lidar`, `input_mmwave` (as available)
- `gt_keypoints`: 3D keypoints
- `gt_smpl_params`: SMPL params
- `*_camera`: modality camera metadata dicts

`BaseDataset.collate_fn` behavior to know:
- if all sample values of a key are tensors, they are stacked.
- if any value is missing (`None`), a Python list is kept instead of tensor stack.
- for missing `*_affine` keys, it inserts identity `4x4` tensors.

This list-vs-tensor behavior is a common source of shape/type bugs in custom heads.

## Temporal (`seq_len > 1`) shape contract

For sequence runs, the pipeline assumes:
- `input_rgb`: `(T, C, H, W)` after `ToTensor`
- `input_depth`: `(T, C, H, W)` after `ToTensor`
- `input_lidar` / `input_mmwave`: `(T, N, C)` after `PCPad` + `ToTensor`
- `gt_camera_<modality>`: `(T, 9)` pose encodings from `CameraParamToPoseEncoding`

`SyncKeypointsWithCameraEncoding` supports both single-frame and sequence 3D keypoints:
- if `gt_keypoints` is `(J, 3)`, it is broadcast across all `T` camera steps
- if `gt_keypoints` is `(T, J, 3)`, it is used step-wise

The synced 2D output is always sequence-aligned:
- `gt_keypoints_2d_rgb` / `gt_keypoints_2d_depth`: `(T, J, 2)`

## HummanPreprocessedDatasetV2 notes

`datasets/humman_dataset_v2.py` is the main newer HuMMan preprocessed loader.

Expected folder structure under `data_root`:
- `rgb/`
- `depth/`
- `lidar/` (optional if generating from depth)
- `cameras/<seq>_cameras.json`
- `smpl/<seq>_smpl_params.npz`
- `skl/<seq>_keypoints_3d.npz`

Important behavior:
- can use YAML split definitions with `split_config` and `split_to_use`.
- if no split config, defaults to person-based 80/20 split.
- can convert depth to point cloud on the fly (`convert_depth_to_lidar=True`).
- can skip heavy image loading while keeping geometry labels (`skeleton_only=True`).

## Split config usage

`configs/datasets/humman_split_config.yml` supports:
- `random_split`
- `cross_camera_split`
- `cross_subject_split`
- `cross_action_split`

When `test_mode=True`, the dataset reads `val_dataset` section of the selected split entry.

## Transform pipeline config

Pipelines are list-of-dicts:

```yaml
train_pipeline:
  - name: DepthToLiDARPC
    params:
      keys: [input_depth]
  - name: VideoResize
    params:
      size: [180, 320]
      keep_ratio: true
      divided_by: 16
      keys: [input_rgb]
  - name: VideoNormalize
    params:
      norm_mode: imagenet
      keys: [input_rgb]
  - name: PCPad
    params:
      num_points: 1024
      pad_mode: repeat
      keys: [input_lidar]
  - name: ToTensor
    params: null
```

If a transform entry includes `prob`, it is wrapped with `RandomApply`.

## Example: use HummanPreprocessedDatasetV2 in config

```yaml
train_dataset:
  name: HummanPreprocessedDatasetV2
  params:
    data_root: /opt/data/humman
    split: train
    split_config: configs/datasets/humman_split_config.yml
    split_to_use: cross_subject_split
    modality_names: [rgb, depth]
    seq_len: 3
    seq_step: 1
    convert_depth_to_lidar: true
```

## Sanity-check dataset quickly

```bash
uv run python - <<'PY'
from argparse import Namespace
from misc.utils import load_cfg
from datasets.data_api import LitDataModule

cfg = load_cfg("configs/dev/humman_smpl_token_v4.yml")
dm = LitDataModule(cfg)
dm.setup("fit")
print("train size:", len(dm.train_dataset))
print("val size:", len(dm.val_dataset))
sample = dm.train_dataset[0]
print("sample keys:", sorted(sample.keys()))
PY
```
